[ Pause ]
>> And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep
on to help uncover
what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
[ Background sounds ]
>> George Noory: And
welcome back to Beyond Belief
with our very special
guest, Karen Dolman.
She's the author of
course of two works,
The Spirit of Creativity and
the Spirits of Ouija as we talk
about just what's
on the other side.
You know, Karen,
this is something all
of us are going to have to face.
We're going to make that journey
and there's nothing
we can do about it.
So kind of tell us what we
can expect on the other side.
>> Karen Dahlman: Well, I can
tell you what you can expect
from what I've learned
and gleaned from my work
with the spirits that
are on the other side
and these are mostly
discarnate spirits,
meaning they have never been
born in a physical body.
What they say is that you can
expect an easy transition.
It's not scary, it's not hard.
They're there to help you.
There's always spirits
there to meet you.
It could be deceased loved ones,
it can also be these discarnate
spirits, maybe an angel
or guardians that have
been around you forever.
And what they say sometimes
happens is sometimes people,
when they pass over,
they're a little afraid
of the light, not
sure what to do.
>> George Noory: Right.
>> Karen Dahlman: So there's
these spirits over there
and I speak to three of them.
They're called helping
spirits, healing spirits,
and they actually
stay in this light
to help people do
the transition.
>> George Noory: Are they people
we knew in our living life?
>> Karen Dahlman: These
guys are not, I said guys.
These entities, there's
really no sex
to them although they come to me
and they might feel more
feminine or masculine.
>> George Noory: Sure.
>> KD: I say that,
that's why I'm laughing
because they're really
androgenous in a way.
They're over there, but
yes they also bring,
or you should say your relatives
come through too to help you.
Sometimes there's a stuckness,
if you will, when people pass
over and it's not a bad thing.
It's just that they need
extra help with some
of these other spirits.
And these spirits, the
healing spirits of the light
who might stay with you in
this space protecting you,
helping you, loving you,
guiding you, learning--
you're always evolving
when you pass over.
There's always more
lessons to learn.
There's always some-- a
life review, there's a time
to understand what's next
for you or where you've been,
what areas in your life
you can grow within
and it just continues.
It goes on and on.
>> GN: I have always thought
the other side was much
like the dream state.
When you're in your dream you
never eat, you never get hungry.
You just go on and on and on
into whatever dream
you might have had.
Is it like that in that
you're somewhat in a fog
but it's like a dream?
>> KD: Yeah.
Well, in my dreams
I eat sometimes.
>> GN: See, I've never
eaten in my dream.
>> KD: I have.
>> GN: Never.
>> KD: Yeah.
Oh, okay. Well, maybe
you have anorexic dreams.
I don't know.
Yeah, I will eat in my dreams.
But it's like that
and what I've learned,
one of the things they've
taught me about the soul is
that the soul has an easier time
communicating with our own self.
Our soul is this energy
that comes and goes.
It's not necessarily stuck
in our physical body.
It's with our incarnation,
but it's that part of ourself,
this is what they teach me
now, that goes back to source.
The soul transcends the corporal
world and the spiritual world.
So it's a little bit of
both, but it can communicate
with us the best
within the dream state
because in the dream state
we're open, we're uninhibited,
anything can happen, right,
anything that you wish,
if you become able to
control your dreams
in terms of lucid dream.
>> GN: Lucid dream, sure.
>> KD: Right, a lot
of people will work.
It's a goal that
people have to do.
It doesn't-- you don't
necessarily have to do that,
but that's one way
you can have all kinds
of contact with your soul.
But your soul is there talking
to you in the dream state
as well is what I've learned,
what they like to teach.
So it's a great space
to be in to have
that ease in communication.
>> GN: When your years
start to click by you begin
to pay a little bit
more attention
to people who have passed on.
And, you know, being in Los
Angeles most of the time,
you know, you see all these
stories of these movie stars
and TV stars and other
celebrities who have died,
whether it was a Frank
Sinatra, or Sammy Davis Junior,
or just about anybody.
And you begin to
realize that, you know,
your life has got this
certain time limit
to it and then you move on.
But I am fascinated by the
fact that they move on,
I wonder what things are
like for them, those people
who had incredible notoriety
in their physical life.
Are they comfortable?
Is it easy for them?
Are they frustrated?
What happens to them?
>> KD: Well, you know, I
haven't spoke to anybody famous
like that but I will say this,
is that there is
a confidentiality
but it's the release
of the personality
so when you realize-- okay,
let's back up here a little bit
and I can talk about maybe
the different between spirits
and ghosts and hauntings.
This might help us understand
this, what you brought up.
When you pass over,
a dead person is now--
becomes a spirit.
They go back into
their spiritual form.
A lot of times when they
hold onto their personality,
afraid to leave it,
there's that piece
of them that's just pulling
them back to the reality
of the physical,
the corporal world.
That can cause a haunting,
that can cause a
poltergeist-like activity.
It can make a person
become now--
a spirit become like
more of a ghost,
and I talk about the
differences in different stories
in that new book of mine, the
Spirits of Ouija where I do talk
about the difference between
the two and also some--
I give some good examples
of these ghosts I've
run into and spirits.
So when I answer question like
Sammy Davis Junior, you know,
Frank Sinatra, which
I love their work,
you know, I don't know.
I don't know, but I do know--
>> GN: Are they singing
on the other side?
>> KD: You know, you can
take your talents with you,
but there's-- you
drop your personality
and that allows you to move on.
The idea is not to be
attached to that still.
When they first pass over
what I have learned is
that they will be a part
of that personality still
because they're here
to kind of help us
when we're mourning
their loss for--
as the example with
the gal in my sorority
who was mourning her sister's
loss and her sister had to come
through and tell her, I am fine.
So they're there
to tell us that.
And so maybe he there's dancing,
Sammy Davis Junior's
tap dancing in a way.
I mean, he could be.
He's doing what he enjoys best.
He's doing what allows his
soul to grow, whatever that is.
Who am I to say what that is?
Only he would know,
but the spirits do say,
and people that pass on
said they are learning new
techniques, new ideas,
new concepts.
Things maybe I didn't quite
embrace when they were alive
or things they wanted
to know more about.
And it's like a school,
if you will.
>> GN: When you go to bed
and then you fall asleep,
very rarely do you remember that
moment that you fell asleep.
You just, you're out.
And is dying much like that?
I mean, are you-- let's say
you're in a hospital room
and you're in the bed and
do you just go like that,
like you do when
you're sleeping?
>> KD: Well they say, and I
don't want to scare anybody
because it's not like
you're going to fall asleep
and little kids worry
about that,
if I fall asleep well
does that mean I die?
I've heard those kind
of questions before.
So I don't really want to equate
it with sleep, but you're right.
That transition process to your
dream state is what they tell me
it's like when you die,
no matter how horrific your
death was, you can still be
that same kind of transition.
>> GN: Absolutely.
>> KD: Yeah.
So it's a gentle.
>> GN: Whether it's
tragic or not.
>> KD: Yeah, right.
The tragic's [inaudible]
will knock the spirits
on the other side just a
little off their balance
where they have to kind of,
maybe needs a little extra help.
You know, maybe they
went through a serious,
horrific illness that requires
a little extra help too
on the other side to-- infirmary
if you will, where they can heal
and be taken care of, but
they're always around.
It's-- there's always loving
influences around them.
I don't believe in this whole
Dante's Inferno or purgatory,
you know, or the hell.
Yes, you might see
hellish things
if that's part of your reality.
You know, we have
to look at a lot
of times what we believe is
what we're going to experience,
and that goes in
the afterlife too.
>> GN: We've talked about
in the religion talks
about being a good person
before you die, right.
So they drill into us all
these things and these rules
that you should live
by in order to get
to a higher level when you die.
Is that important or can
you be a horrendous human,
absolutely horrendous and still
get through on the other side?
>> KD: Well I believe the source
loves us all and we're all
from the source so we all
came from a light source.
And a lack of light
would be just a darkness.
And so as soon as we turn
our backs to the light,
for whatever reasons that we
become horrific and horrendous,
and I would say I'm more
scared of live people
than dead people
for that reason.
That there's more of an
awareness when you die
because you have helpers over
there of a similar consciousness
or energy where they will
also help you work with this.
On this side a lot of the times
it's the blind leading the
blind, you know, where
over there it's a little--
there's a little more
structure and help, if you will,
on that side to guide you
in the right directions.
So I would-- moving over
to that side, you know,
I wouldn't really be fearful
of that or worried about that
because they are going to have
the help they need once they get
over there.
But if they're horrific and
horrendous, they're still going
to be loved, still
going to be welcomed.
It's like the prodigal son
story from the bible, right,
and he comes back
and he's still loved
and in fact given all the graces
and the gifts of the father.
It's saying that too.
You are no different, but you
need to look at yourself now.
Now you have an awareness
to say I did that?
My personality did--
that's horrible.
You know, how am I going
to make a mends for this?
There is an idea of an eye for
an eye retribution, if you will.
You can call it karmic law.
I think a lot of
people call it karma.
>> GN: Karma, and
I've seen that happen.
>> KD: Yeah.
You'll see a [inaudible]
life happen, right.
>> GN: Do spirits communicate
with other spirits
on the other side?
>> KD: Oh, they do.
They talk.
Yes, they do.
They interact together.
In fact, they'll come to me
and sometimes a mouth piece
spirit will come forward,
meaning all of them together
have one person that's going
to represent them at this forum,
at this round table
discussion tonight.
>> GN: What do they tall about?
>> KD: They talk about
what they're working
on with the other people.
I ask them these questions.
I love this because these
are questions I ask them.
Well what are you doing
on the other side?
And they're working with
other people that passed over,
they're helping each other,
they're communicating how
they're going to do that.
They get their game
plan together.
They're talking with the
people that have passed on.
It's never pushing somebody
to be something they
don't want to be.
It's never pushing somebody
against their own
volition again.
It's always helping them to
activate that within themselves.
So they help them on the other
side they same way they help me
on this side, activate what--
myself, what's inside of me,
my grandeur, and help activate
the grandeur of the spirit
of that person that
passed over too.
So they help you, not
make you, not force you.
It's always of your
own volition,
it's always of free will.
>> GN: Some spirits are
confused when they die.
I remember a phone
call I had once
where an emergency
medical technician called
and she was driving and
witnessed a car accident,
single car accident, and the
body was outside the car,
so it must have gotten
flipped out of the car.
>> KD: Yeah.
>> GN: Right.
So she-- she's all
alone on this road.
It's dark.
She gets there and
she runs to the body
and she's looking around.
She's got to call somebody.
She needs help immediately.
She sees a guy on the side
of the road standing there
and she's yelling to him
please, call for help.
And the guy was just like
in a daze, just watching her
like this not saying anything.
And she's saying
please call for help
and he's just standing there.
Well, she flips over the
body-- it's that guy.
>> KD: Oh, wow.
>> GN: And she swears by it.
>> KD: Wow.
>> GN: She looks
over and he's gone.
So in immediate deaths
like that, car accident,
body gets tossed out
of the car, he's dead.
The spirit is a little
disjointed isn't it?
>> KD: It can be.
In that case we're
assuming it was
because it wouldn't
communicate back.
Maybe it was just
amazed at watching.
This is my body.
I'm dying, I'm leaving
it now or maybe--
>> GN: Somebody help me.
>> KD: Yeah, help me.
I'm not sure what to do.
Or maybe at that moment it was a
choice too where he could choose
to go back and go on
or he could choose
to go on to the other side.
You know, we don't really know,
but that's really a fascinating
story and I've heard some
of these stories like
this before where they do,
people do run into
a spirit that's just
disembodied immediately.
There can be a jostled up
effect where they're not sure
and that's when the other
spirits will come in and help.
I mean they're not--
nobody's left alone.
>> GN: Right.
>> KD: Even how horrific they
can be, they're not left alone.
>> GN: Most after
death stories I hear,
they don't want to come back.
It's the entities on the other
side that kind of push them back
and say it's not your time.
You have to go back.
Why do they have that feeling of
solitude where when they do die,
they don't want to come back
and they have that ability,
they have that option.
They just want to stay
on the other side.
How come? Is it that pleasant?
>> KD: I don't blame--
yeah, that's what I hear.
That's what I-- I haven't had
a near death experience, NDE's,
I just know what they've
told me and it's a--
more of a pleasant experience.
See, and that's something
for people to understand.
There isn't this
negativity when you die.
And that-- every time I speak
to somebody whose just passed on
or has a message to their loved
ones, they'll tell them that,
that there is no pain, it's
actually a lovely place to be.
And maybe they didn't
always choose it,
maybe they do choose it.
In the cases that I've--
the spirits or ghosts--
or spirits I've spoken to,
it was like they
didn't really have--
the choice was they were--
it was their time to go.
That was the message I received.
It wasn't that they
had that choice.
But you can have that
choice and especially
if there's more for you to do.
And the interesting thing
that I've learned working
with this tool, and I'm just
going to say this tool here,
is that there is a
greatness within each of us
and we need to activate that.
And a lot of times we're asked
to go back to activate that.
And it might be the NDE that
brings a person to that.
And a lot of times in our lives,
and I speak to women and men
about this a lot, especially
when I used to be a therapist,
my practice was there
comes a point in your life
when there's sometimes
a real chaotic event
or a traumatic episode that's
traumatic in however you want
to describe it to yourself,
that pushes you to be greater
than you are, than
you think you can be.
And so I believe those spirits
on your side are doing--
they're applauding
us and cheering us
on every time we choose
love over hate or fear.
Actually, the opposite
of love is fear.
And they applaud us and
they know that we do that,
the more love that we
acknowledge within ourselves,
the more we're getting
closer and going to get
to this great gifts and
talents that we have within,
and that's a lot of times why
we have to stay and come back
to fulfill that if you
will because that helps all
of humanity, when we
fill those greatness
and the gifts within ourselves.
>> GN: Our Beyond Belief camera
and our phones are ringing.
Let's get a question for Karen.
>> Mike: Hi, Karen.
I'm Mike from Colorado and
I was wondering what really
scares you?
>> GN: What scares you, Karen?
>> KD: Well to be
honest with you guys,
is that when I was young
I was scared of the dark.
I was scared of the dark
for many years and it's
because I would experience
all this paranormal activity.
You know, I could feel and I
could sense it, I could see it
and that was scary to me because
I couldn't quite place it
into a neat box and explain
what I was experiencing,
but as I began working
with the board
and I really understood what
its uses were in my 20s,
that's when I really lost
that fear of the dark.
It decreased, as well as a fear
of what happens when you die
or a fear of negative
energies because I don't--
I haven't experienced them
and when they do come forward,
I let them push them away.
Maybe because of my beliefs
and what I've learned
through the board, so I don't--
it's really helped me not
have that sense of fear.
I don't-- I would say
I fear GMOs and people
that are alive more than--
>> GN: Sure.
>> KD: Yeah, more than I fear--
>> GN: Do you sleep
with your arm hanging
over the side of the bed?
>> KD: I do not.
No, not typically.
There might be something
under my bed.
>> GN: That's right.
See, so you still
have that little--
>> KD: Well, you know,
when you're asleep you're
like okay, what can happen?
I've had spirits come to my
room, but there's a rule I have
and the guardians know this,
that if they want to talk
to me they don't come
when I'm sleeping.
They must stay outside of
my room and we can talk
when I open the portal.
That's it, period.
And that's the rules I have.
>> GN: In your second
books, Spirits of the Ouija,
what's the main message
you're trying to get across?
>> KD: The message is this,
is that life does continue on,
that the opposite
of love is fear,
and the more we can find love
in our lives within ourselves,
the greater we'll
be in our lives,
the more we can effect ourselves
and humanity and help others.
And the bottom line of what
the book is about as well
as what the spirit guides on
the other side would like us
to know is that we have
these great potentials
within ourselves and all we
need to do is activate those.
And how to do that, there's very
many different paths to do it,
but they always tell me
that the path to the top,
there's many branches to it.
So you could take many
different roads to get
to the same end result,
and this is just one road.
But they want you to know
that there's a greatness
and grandness within ourselves
and I know I repeat myself
when I say this, but I must
because I think we don't quite
fully grasp that at times.
>> GN: Does the Ouiga board
ever give you a glimpse
of the future?
>> KD: Well, it--
>> GN: Does it spell
out things like that?
>> KD: It can and has and I
received letters from people
and emails that tell
me the same stuff.
I don't use it for
those reasons.
those purposes and one
of the reasons why is because
it's not always accurate.
Okay, it's kind of like
going into a psychic
and I love psychics,
don't get me wrong,
but is anybody predicting
the future?
It can change and
it could change
as we evolve and
change our minds.
>> GN: Events could change it?
>> KD: Yeah, events change
it, not just our own thoughts,
other events around us
change what's happening.
So to predict you
could say yeah,
generality, this could happen.
And I've had some of that
explained to me before.
I don't rely on that, I don't
use it for those reasons.
I use it, again, for
other kinds of purposes,
more of a developmental purpose
than that because I don't want
to rely on something outside
of me for the answers.
>> GN: I mean, would it ever
say hurricane, category 5--
>> KD: Yes.
>> GN: Coming soon.
>> KD: Yes, it has.
It has to people before.
And I've had some experience
with that too and I--
somebody just wrote to me
recently and told me about,
they knew that Mount Saint
Helen's was going to blow
and it was-- this is
way after the fact,
but they heard it 10
years before it happened
and even told what, where
it would happen and the name
of the lake, spirit lake,
and so there's some really
interesting stories like that
that you'll hear that, yeah,
things like that can happen.
>> GN: What do you think the
other side is, and really is?
I mean, I happen to believe that
when this universe was created,
or the multi-verses
were created--
>> KD: Great way of saying it.
>> GN: That it's just a natural
flow of what all this is.
A lot of people go
oh my god it's
so supernatural,
it's so paranormal.
I think it's very normal.
I think that the mere fact that
we're here today talking is
as easy as what's on
the other side as well.
I think it's all encompassing,
it's all part of the same thing.
What are your thoughts on that?
>> KD: I- I very much
believe what you believe
on the same level.
It's a multi-verse
of different energies
and I believe it's all
part of the matrix,
and it's all the same source.
And just because we can't
see some of the colors
in our spectrum, doesn't
mean it's the same thing.
That's not paranormal.
It's just we don't have the
ability within our makeup
of our body, the mechanisms
within to see those spectrums
but yet they still exist.
Same thing with spirits
and ghosts,
that's why some people
do see them.
I will see them too
occasionally,
depending on if everything's
aligned correctly
with the energy and the
mind and the heart and all
of that, they're there.
They're here with us.
It's like a parallel
existence of the same source,
of the same matrix, we just
can't necessarily phantom
that we're used to
linear concept
and this is not a
linear concept at all.
It's everything is happening
now and they tell me that.
They always say,
everything is right now.
They tell me now until,
and I don't want--
I'm tired of hearing the
now is what I tell them.
They say, it's now.
Everything you do is right now.
>> GN: Right now.
>> KD: Right, and you can
effect great change now.
Don't say tomorrow, it's
never going to come.
Don't say yesterday,
it's already happened.
It's now. Yesterday is now.
Tomorrow is now.
So it's kind of a hard
thing for us to phantom
because we want time,
we want that continuum,
which is not necessarily
how it works.
>> GN: You've used the Oiuja
board for self-development.
Tell me how that works.
>> KD: Great.
Well I used it to, I'll
ask the questions, this--
okay, let me start
from the beginning.
So I'll have somebody come over
who works the board with me,
an operator I call them,
and maybe participants
that want to be sitters.
>> GN: Okay.
>> KD: Okay, and they
want to hear the session,
and what we'll do is we'll say
okay, we're going to open it
up to a message you have
for any of us in the room.
So the guides come in
and they have a message.
It might be something like,
for example, a friend came over
and she was wanting to make
contact with her deceased father
and immediately the
spirits come through
and said he wants
to talk to her.
And when he came
through it was--
he said, I want to let you
know that it's time now
for you to live your life.
Don't worry about so-in-so,
and he goes right into names,
as if he's part of her life
right now and he's been dead
for quite a few years.
So-in-so this person and this
person does things this way
and you really need to
look, to focus on yourself.
I mean, and this
is how you use it.
You use it not to--
okay, so you're dead.
What are you feeling
and all this stuff.
It's more about how
can we work together
to understand what
happens to ourselves
as we're alive and
as we're dead?
Is this like a mutual
conversation,
so what we do is we'll
have conversations.
Our hands will stay on the
plan chip [phonetic] like this.
It'll move.
We'll be talking in a side
conversation to the gal who came
who wanted to contact
her father.
I might say okay, now talk to
him as if he's here in the room.
And we keep our hands on
the planchettes and then
that spirit will be there
as part of the conversation
and we'll say well, have
you thought about this?
Why don't you think about
right now pursuing this dream
of yours?
You've been wanting to pursue.
Why are you waiting so long?
They never tell us what to do.
They'll give us questions.
Why are you waiting so long?
Why have you not activated
that within yourself?
What's holding you back?
And then I'll become
the moderator I guess
and I'll say so, so in so,
what's holding you back.
Well, because I haven't
felt the confidence.
And I'll say okay.
So if you don't feel the
confidence well tell me what
that's about?
Why is that?
What's that like?
What does that feel like?
And then the spirit will talk
too and then we'll all talk.
It's all of us working
together really and not one
of us having more of
a say than the other,
but ultimately it comes
back to the person whose--
who the message is
for to integrate it
and say okay, I understand.
I really need to go ahead
and go after this career
that I'm wanting to do.
I know I can do it.
So he's right.
Why am I not doing it?
And then when you have somebody
like your father talking to you
who has a very positive
influence for this woman,
it's hard not to listen to that
when he's using the same words
he used when he was alive
and the same tone and the same
comfortness that makes her want
to go wow, thank you, dad.
You know, thank you
for being there.
>> GN: How do you also know
though that the messages
that come through aren't coming
from your very deep
subconscious,
that it's really you?
>> KD: Right, the question is
ideomotor [phonetic] skills,
does it come from
your subconscious?
Is it my mind making it happen?
You know, and look there's
no way to prove any of that
to be honest with you.
Maybe until I die and come back
and talk on the Ouija board,
right, on the other side.
This is what I say.
If we can effect great change
and people are actually getting
something from these sessions
and there's some kind of
healing element to it and--
GN: That's all that matters.
KD: That's all that matters.
Okay, so that's pretty cool if
I can get my higher self to say
such poignant stuff like
that with the other person
and we're not fighting
for driver's control
over the planchette, you
know, nobody's pushing it.
You know, the flow of
it, the energy change,
when you're in the room
and how I watch this person
or even myself getting the
message, that the change,
the change that goes over the
continence, the body language,
how that shifts, it's
like you can't help
but say this is something
magical, mysterious, personable,
real that's happening here.
And so you know, I
believe I'm not doing that
but I do know I've
spoken to my higher self.
It's helped me and others before
as well, that that process
and that ability is there.
So I just say as long as it's
a helpful thing, I'm not going
to worry so much always where
it's coming from, right,
although I believe we're all
connected to the same source
so it's really hard
to separate all that,
really when you're
working on this level.
>> GN: And of course let's go
to a final call here
for Karan Dahlman.
>> Sean: Hi, Karen.
This is Sean.
I was curious how people can
get rid of evil around them.
>> GN: Get rid of
evil around you.
Of course, you don't
believe in evil.
>> KD: Right.
I don't believe in evil as
a negative, as a entity.
I believe in evil
in human behavior
and people do horrific things,
which is evil in itself.
I'm assuming he's speaking
more on the spiritual level
because we are after all--
>> GN: Absolutely I would think.
>> KD: Spirit side.
Okay, so in that sense you know
you don't want to use any kind
of tool that takes you to the
other side, the other world,
the other realms if
you're not prepared
for that meaning it's not-- this
is not a toy, it's not a game,
it's not for anybody
that's weak minded.
I don't want to be-- I don't
want to make a judgment call,
but feeling intimidated by
it and feeling fearful of it,
because fear breeds fear
and fear again is
the opposite of love.
And so fear is the
absence also of light.
So if you feel like there's
a negative energy force,
let's just say it that way,
around you that you want
to call evil, I would say
there's some, you know,
you really need to
protect yourself.
You need to get back into
your power of your center
of who you are, not be
messing with this stuff,
but do some real inner
soul searching work.
Look at who you are, who
you're hanging out with,
what kind of environment
you're in, are you taking a lot
of weird substances, I
mean, what are you doing
to keep your integrity
here in terms
of being spiritually centered.
>> GN: The reason why I
cancelled my Ouija board show
on Coast to Coast, on
the national radio show,
was not because I'm particularly
afraid of the board.
It's all the other
people who are out there
that could have opened up
portals knowing it or not,
and so what I tried to
do was protect them.
>> KD: You thought
they might go out
and buy Ouija boards
and start using them?
>> GN: And start using them
in a bad way or, you know,
in a way that they're not
prepared for or ready because,
you know, whether
you sit and pray,
whether you use the Ouija board,
whether you light a candle
and try to conjure up the devil,
people do things
in different ways.
But I think when you reach deep
within yourself and then you try
to reach all these other
things, things can happen.
And if you're not
prepared for it,
you could really do
some serious harm.
>> KD: Yeah, and so you saw--
what I like about this is
that you saw the
seriousness of this tool.
>> GN: Absolutely,
it's not a joke to me.
>> KD: It's not a joke.
It's not a game.
And that takes responsibility
with it.
As I told you when I saw this
tool could be used for somebody
to have-- effect great
healing with this board
and they had been carrying
on their back and it heavy
on their chest and their hearts
because the death of her sister,
horrific death of her sister.
It's that kind of
responsibility.
So in your mind, in your
heart that's what you need
to do and that makes sense.
So I would-- I value
that on that level
because you know what, you
are out there nationally
and you have a right to--
a responsibility
with the information
that you're sharing, right.
And so do I and so I say don't
use this tool unless it's
calling you to use it.
And only use it under those
auspices of using it correctly
and using it for a developmental
tool to help yourself grow
or to find some kind of releaser
or closure to a death, period.
>> GN: So people tell me that
if you try to get rid of these,
if you try to burn
them, they won't burn.
Did you ever hear that?
>> KD: I do, but you know,
you probably know
what I'm going to say.
Don't give your power
to an outside source.
>> GN: Let's light them all now.
>> KD: No.
These are-- I have
some old ones here.
>> GN: Collector's items, huh.
>> KD: Yeah, these are
collector's items here.
No, look. To me these
are just boards,
heavy boards but they're boards.
>> GN: Hold one up.
Hold up your favorite one.
>> KD: Yeah, let's
get an older one.
I have a lot of favorites here.
>> GN: Hold it straight
up for the camera.
>> KD: This one's from
the '20s and '30s.
This one even has the
directions on the back.
This is-- I like them all.
>> GN: Hold it straight up.
>> KD: There you go.
You can see it better.
It's just, you know,
it's just a board.
So I wouldn't burn them.
You don't need to burn them.
You know, hey, there's people
out there that collect these.
I'm one of them and
there's quite a few that do.
And if you've got some old
one that we like, heck,
I might want to buy it.
>> GN: What's more important,
the board of the planchette.
>> KD: To me, myself.
That's what's more important.
>> GN: Yeah.
>> KD: It's how I'm
treating this whole scenario
of working the Ouija.
That's what's more important.
In fact, I don't
need a planchette.
I don't need a board.
I've been known to-- people
want to do Ouija board,
I've been known to
open up a paper sack,
write on it the letters.
>> GN: It still works that way?
>> KD: Oh, and I turn
over a Pyrex glass
or a double old fashioned
and it works just fine.
>> GN: Karen, you've
got a website,
people are into new technology.
How do they find you?
>> KD: Oh, I do.
I'm all over the internet
and you can find me
under KarenADahlman.com.
>> GN: Spell it out for us.
>> KD: Karen, K-A-R-E-N,
A, middle initial,
and Dahlman, D-A-H-L-M-A-N,
.com.
>> GN: Her books of course,
The Spirit of Creativity
and the brand new one,
The Spirits of Ouija.
And you've been watching,
Beyond Belief.
[ Music ]